>> LILOU: Hello, my
beautiful co-creators.
Lilou here on the road in
London for a very last interview
while I'm here because I
mean London is, in Europe,
definitely one of
those places where
you find very
interesting people.
And last time, I fell
in love with your story
and your message.
And I think that's why
I wanted you back and do
this video, especially for Gaiam
because I think you're showing
very much what it takes to
be a human being in this kind
of messy world these days, huh?
Do you feel like that?
I mean, how does it
feel for you to be back
in London after spending
some time in Peru?
We're going to speak
of shamanism here.
And you have a very
interesting perspective on it.
But how does it feel
to be back in London
after this time in Peru?
>> REBEKAH SHAMAN: Well,
I've been back for 15 years,
so it was a long time
ago that it happened.
But it was difficult when I
did come back originally-- very
difficult.
And that's because when
you're in the Amazon,
you see how everything
is so interrelated and
interconnected.
There's no such place as
away, so there's nowhere
to put your rubbish
for the start.
And there's nowhere
to go to the toilet,
so you have out into the
jungle and basically squat.
And we were quite lucky.
We had the luxury
of toilet paper,
but that was also quite rare for
certain families who basically
just go and wash in the
river water or use leaves.
And everything that
we ate, we killed.
So all the meat that we
ate, we hunted and killed.
All the fish that we ate,
we fished out of the river.
All the water we drank
was from the river.
And so there was a real
symbiotic relationship
with the natural environment
and how humans lived in it.
And it was revolutionary
for someone who was born in
and brought up in London.
And I had an awareness of
it being human, but never
an understanding of it.
And coming back to the West and
seeing just the amount of waste
that we create,
the amount of food
waste that we create,
the lack of connection
with the food that we're
eating-- including animals as
well.
Most certainly
animals-- we get it all
packaged up very nicely
in the supermarket.
We don't see all the guts,
and blood, and the gore.
And also killing an animal is
quite a traumatic experience
because animals don't
to die as much as humans
don't want to die.
So there is a fight
there between the hunter
and the animal.
And the animal will try and stay
alive for as long as possible.
So you don't eat meat that
much just because it's
such a traumatic experience
to go and hunt meat.
And also, if everyone just
hunted meat every day,
the meat would run out.
So there's a real
understanding that in order
to hunt sustainably, you need
to hunt every now and then.
So there's special
guidelines as to who can hunt
and when they can hunt.
And same with fishing--
so people would fish
to consume with
their family, maybe
sell a little bit
here and there.
But most people would
fish for their own needs
and never over-fish.
And you come back to the West.
And of course, there is
none of that in place.
And I did have a panic attack.
Well, it was
Christmas I came back.
And I had a bit
of a panic attack
in Oxford Circus when I
saw these swarms of people.
And I just thought how
is this sustainable?
How are we going to sustain
this for the coming years?
And it really did freak me out.
And that was the
hardest thing really.
>> LILOU: So you wrote the
Shaman's Last Apprentice.
And you're all about
this-- because I
guess beyond the aspect
of fishing and hunting,
there was to whole
shift in your way
of being and
connecting to the earth
and relating to the planet
and to other human beings.
And that's what
you really bring.
Tell us more about this
core, this message,
or how now you're relating
to yourself or others.
>> REBEKAH: Well, what I
realized that while I was
in the Amazon is
that we're all human.
And we're all interconnected.
We're a race of humanity
just like-- we're
another species on this planet.
We're not separated
from the planet.
We're not individualistic.
We're actually a collective
working on this planet.
And we are all experiencing
life in the same way.
We might have different
stories, different characters,
different situations
happening to us.
But the basic experience
of life is equal
for everyone and
everyone is being
faced with the same issues, same
challenges, the same blessings.
And we've kind of over the
last few centuries really
created a system
and a belief system
that's very much
individualistic.
It's me against the world, and
I need to get my needs met.
And I'm going to get
my needs met regardless
of how it's affecting
the whole, regardless
the environment.
And certainly over the
last 40 or 50 years,
we've seen that
massively progress
in our economic systems.
And it's just that
we've forgotten.
We've just forgotten this
understanding, this wisdom
that actually we're
all in this together.
We're a global family.
And we need to unite and
start working together
to combat some of the
challenges that we're
going to be facing
because of the system
that we have in place.
It's not people,
it's the system that
is feeding the people,
that is feeding us.
If we change the system,
people would be different.
It's a belief
system, and we need
to change our
belief system first.
And it's all down
to what we value.
And we need to move away from
a very selfish me, me, me
value system to a much more
inclusive value system where
there's everything
for everybody.
There's enough for
everybody on the planet.
Everyone can live a
healthy, prosperous life.
It's just that we need to
really, every one of us,
start believing that and
start living in that way.
It's our actions.
It's our belief system
that needs to change first,
and then our actions
come after that.
It's like what
Gandhi said, if you
want to see change in the
world, you have to be it.
You have to be the change.
And what he meant by
that is that we all
need to change a little
bit within ourselves
in order for the
collective to change.
It's never going to
come from the system.
We cannot change what's
happening externally.
We can only change what's
happening within ourselves.
And once we change that, then we
can really change the external.
And my time in the Amazon--
and also my time in Machu
Picchu because I lived in
Machu Picchu for seven months
before I went to the Amazon.
And that also had
a profound effect
on me living in the
Andes Mountains,
living with local community, and
seeing the entrepreneurships,
the natural social cohesion, the
understanding that everyone was
reliant on the natural
resources of that place,
and actually being there
in time of a big shift when
corporations were starting
to realize there was
a big profit making
possibility for Machu Picchu.
And recognizing that, actually,
local community has the power,
but we give our power away
because we're not united.
We're individual
voices, but we need
to become more united in
order to have the full voice,
in order to have the power.
And you can see very
clearly that over the years
the unions-- certainly in
England, in this country--
have been demoralized
and almost broken down
because when people come
together in force and demand
something, they have
a lot more clout.
If you've got people
individually trying
to fight their little
corner, it just
takes a much longer process.
And they don't have
that much power.
>> LILOU: Is it something
that the shaman understands
because you've been spending
some time with a shaman?
Is that something that he
very much feels or act on?
>> REBEKAH: Well, this is
because I'm a Westerner.
And I'm born in the West.
So this is my perspective on it.
A shaman-- my teacher,
Don Juanito, was very old.
He was in his 80's.
He lived in a village
far away from Iquitos,
which is the main Amazonian
city of the upper basin of Peru.
And he just served his local
community as a querendaro.
That's what they called
him, a querendaro.
It means someone who heals
people, that cures people using
the medicine plant Ayahuasca.
And people would
come to him, and he
would serve the medicine.
And he was also a great healer.
He was also known
as a great healer.
No one died in his
house, which is
a sign of someone
that has power.
And people-- that's
how they gauge it.
And actually, people who-- if
someone dies in your house,
it means that you actually, as
a shaman, it's kind of almost
like the end of your career.
But he was trained
with the Bora Bora.
It was him.
It was who he was.
But he didn't live in
the West, so his context
was very much Amazonian based.
It was very much natural based.
And for me, I had to come back.
And it's taken so
many years to try
and fit in what I learned
from that Amazonian context
and put it into
a western context
without getting
absolutely desperate
and just going back to Peru
and living in the Amazon, which
is really what I wanted to do.
But it was very clear
that, actually--
and the shaman also, he
was very clear with me.
He said, your purpose is
to take these messages
and bring them back to the West.
At the time, I didn't really
understand what that meant.
And so it took a
while to understand
that it had to come from
within me, the change.
And I did try.
I went to work in
the corporate world.
I went to work with big
businesses in travel
and tourism-- CEOs
and presidents
of 100 of the major travel
and tourism companies
as a sustainable development and
corporate social responsibility
manager.
I worked for a lobby group
that lobbied governments
on behalf of our members.
And it was a futile
experience really
because even though you had
some CEOs and presidents that
were really keen on the green
agenda and really wanted it,
the system itself
wouldn't let them.
Because when you have the
system-- and everyone knows
this profit orientated
system-- and you
have to cut your profit to help
environmentally and socially.
You're just not
going to-- you just
don't have the inspiration
or even the push to do it.
So you don't because you
have to maximize profit.
And so I saw very
clearly that it
is the system itself is
you can't ever change that.
It's really that
we have to start
changing our belief system.
And actually, it's the
people in the companies
that have the most power.
If the people in the companies
started uniting themselves
within that company and
changing things from the bottom
up rather than the top down,
things would change, I think,
much quicker.
Because there's a lot more
power in middle management.
And if they came together
as one voice rather than it
coming down from the
top-- and the top
are bound by the
system's limitations.
>> LILOU: The shaman
contacts, also,
the spirit world or is
in contact with not only
the plants and their
wisdom, but also--
so he's very much
connected, right?
I mean this is one of,
I guess, of the things
that you want to
bring us, too, is
to feel this connection among
one another and to our planet.
>> REBEKAH: Absolutely, I
mean when you drink Ayahuasca,
when you work in the Amazon,
there's spirits all around.
I mean, you just see
the different spirits.
What you actually do is realize
that we are very limited,
and certainly here in
this part of the world,
by our three
dimensional reality.
And our three
dimensional reality
is very limited to
our five senses.
And when you go
out into the Amazon
and you start
drinking Ayahuasca,
you realize that we're living
in a multi-dimensional reality,
absolutely multi-dimensional.
It all depends on where you
have your dial channeled to.
And most people have
their dial, if you
imagine a radio
frequency, channeled
onto a three
dimensional frequency.
And so that's what
you're seeing.
But if you allow yourself
to change it and open it up,
you can move it to the fourth
and fifth dimensional realities
and actually start
seeing how there's
so much multi-level
things happening,
even if we can't see them.
And I always use the
analogy of elephants
because I never
thought elephants
were communicating
with each other.
And then they
devised a sound box.
And it was created
with this frequency
much lower than what
humans can hear.
And they found out that
elephants were, of course,
communicating with each
other, but we can't hear them.
Just like we can't here a
dog whistle because we're not
tuned for the dog whistle.
If we allowed ourselves to
be more tuned up to a greater
reality, we'd actually
see how we are also
collectively connected.
But my feeling is
also that we're
needing to remember this
wisdom because we're
reaching a point of
crisis on the planet.
And they're not
mutually exclusive,
it's almost like it's
happening because we're
in this crisis on the planet.
And people are having to
wake up and realize this.
So all the information
that we're needing,
all the wisdom is available
to us on our fingertips.
The web, the internet
is our nervous system.
And we can type in anything
that we want to search,
and things will come up.
My friend wanted to find a
ceremony online, a Dionysus
Ceremony.
Well, you know a
hundred years ago,
you'd have to join
a mystical school.
You'd have to train
for years and years.
You'd have to done this
right, and that ritual,
and probably fasted.
And she Googled it and found
it in three minutes-- amazing.
But I really think that
that's because now we
don't have the time
for all of that.
It's all at our fingertips if
we're willing to open our eyes,
and actually start
investigating, and seeing
what's really out there.
But the information
is out there.
It's up to people to be
willing to actually find
that-- go on that
journey themselves.
>> LILOU: How can we find it
without the Ayahuasca trip?
How can we see that?
How can we be in contact with
that on a day to day basis
even in cities like London?
>> REBEKAH: Well, meditation
is definitely a very good way
of going into the silence within
yourself and actually realizing
that the whole
universe is within you.
I've been meditating
for 20 years.
I do Vipassana meditation.
And I really feel that
that's a very important part
of anyone's conscious
development.
Without meditation if
you don't still the mind,
then you cannot go
any further deeper in.
So stilling the mind
is really important.
There's all sorts of
other ways of going.
I mean, even just exercising--
I mean, if you go for a run,
and you get into the zone, and
if you're not having music on,
but you're just
really connecting
in with the pounding of
the feet and the connecting
of the nature around you.
I'm talking about
running outside.
In a gym, it's much harder.
But if you go out
and run outside,
and you take your music
off, and you start really
connecting in with the nature
and the natural rhythms,
you can find a natural flow.
And if you get into your
zone, loads of things
can come up from within.
And it's almost like you
get out of the natural state
and you put yourself
into a trance state.
Trance stating is a
really powerful way
of connecting much
more deeper within.
To see spirits-- I
mean, you wouldn't
want to necessarily
see spirits unless you
were in a very
contained environment.
I mean, they are all around us.
But it can be very disturbing.
>> LILOU: Why is
that disturbing?
>> REBEKAH: To see
spirits around us--
because, especially in
a big place like London,
you don't have the freedom
to-- it's very restricted here
anyway and very crazy.
So the vibration's
too frenetic really
to be able to get
to that state where
you're in that state
to be able to see them.
In the Amazon, obviously,
it's really slow.
The way you live out there
is really, really slow.
It's really calm.
And when you drink
the Ayahuasca,
obviously, the spirits come.
And then once you see
them, you've seen them.
It's almost like
a door's open just
like if you start riding a
bicycle you never forget.
Likewise once it
opens, it opens.
But coming to the
West, I don't see them.
I see them only when I--
I don't see them anymore.
And I think it's a
protection really.
It's a protection.
And certainly, you have
to be ready to be --
want to see them just because
it can be so disconcerting
because you still having
to function in the three
dimensional reality.
Even if we can see
other levels, we're
still living on a three
dimensional reality.
So we always are having to
relate to this way of living.
>> LILOU: So why are they here?
What is their
messages additionally
to the ones you've just said?
Why are they around us?
>> REBEKAH: Well, spirits--
well, in the Amazon,
it's usually spirits of
children, actually, that come.
And they're curious to
see what's going on.
I don't really have
that much experience
with spirits in the West.
So I wouldn't be in a position.
Probably a medium who
contacts spirits directly
would be in a better position
to answer that question.
I like to-- I'm quite
a practical person,
so for me, I don't
see necessarily
how spirits are going
to necessarily help me
in my daily life.
So I don't really spend
that much time focusing.
I don't spend any
time focusing on what
I can't see right
in the immediate
because what we're
needing to do in the West
is actually deal
with reality as it is
and not as we would
like it to be.
And you can get caught up.
And I see it a lot of people
with channeling and looking
beyond themselves for
the answers and stuff.
But my feeling is that we
have it within ourselves.
That we're all really
powerful beings.
We just have to go and decide
that we want to do the work,
and walk on the path, and find
these answers within ourselves.
Relying too much
on things that we
can't see that
aren't tangible, you
don't know what
is coming in then.
You can't tell.
So my feeling is that
is to go and find out
from your own inner
wisdom, and do
your own journey
of self discovery.
And for me, that's the
most joyous way of doing
because then you're not
getting caught up in anything
you don't know or
don't understand.
>> LILOU: And not too
much in imagination,
but really working as a
spiritual activist as we were
saying with-- because you
are a spiritual activist.
I mean, coming out
of that now, you
want to infiltrate
those companies
and bring in the
new message, right?
You're pretty pragmatic.
>> REBEKAH: Yeah, I definitely
wouldn't call myself
a spiritual activist though.
I am just a human being
on the planet that
is finding way-- I have found
a way of really enjoying
myself and having a great time.
And I come from a background of
depression, stress, anxiety--
you know, I tried to commit
suicide when I was 13.
I had a near death experience.
So I've been there
to that point of stop
the planet I want to get off.
I didn't want to be
on the planet anymore.
I didn't like what was going on.
This is a journey
of self discovery.
And I've come through
it and realized
that I had to change the
way that I saw the world.
I had to change the way
that I saw other people.
And more importantly,
I had to change the way
that I saw myself.
I was terrible to myself.
I was my worst enemy.
I would put myself down.
I never gave myself some
time to just enjoy myself.
And the journey of self
discovery and going
into the Amazon actually
took away all those layers
of delusion to the point when I
realized, oh, actually I'm OK.
I'm actually OK.
And not only am I OK, but I'm
actually quite a nice person.
And not only am I
kind of a nice person,
but I really actually enjoy
being here because I enjoy
interrelating and
connecting with people.
And so it came from that
journey to come to this point.
And I always say to
people, it's all about
having fun on the planet.
If you're not having
fun on the planet,
if you're not really enjoying
your life, if you're not
getting all the best out of your
life, then it's not in balance.
And something is wrong.
And it's then
realizing that there's
something that's
not quite right--
that some needs within
you aren't being met.
And then now, you have to go
out, and find the needs that
aren't being met, and
start meeting them
because that's what
it's all about.
It doesn't really
matter what you do.
Whether you're a janitor
in a school, whether you're
a cleaner on the streets,
or whether you're
a top banker-- actually,
it doesn't matter.
It's, are you happy?
That's the question people
should be asking themselves.
Am I happy?
Not have I got millions of
pounds in the bank account
because I'll tell
you, lots of people
have got millions of
pounds in the bank,
and they're just not happy.
I mean the lottery
curse is all around us.
People who suddenly win
loads of money, and it just
destroys their lives
because money can never
bring you happiness.
Happiness comes from
a place within when
your emotional needs are met.
And we're now realizing that
in the West because most of us
have all our physical needs met.
And we're still not happy.
So we have to take
that step further.
And so for me, I'm more of a
consciousness advocate saying,
you know if you want
to find that balance,
find that harmony,
find that peace,
then you have to go on a
journey of self discovery.
And there are people like
me that have done that.
And we can show the way and
show you which way to go.
But you have to take
that journey yourself.
No one can take you to it.
The time of the guru is over.
We all have to take
personal responsibility.
Forget gurus-- that
was so 19th century.
We're in 21st century now.
Everyone has to
be their own guru.
Everyone has to be
their own teacher.
And there's people
who are holding up
sign posts to show you the way.
But in the end, you
have to be that change.
No point in reading
books, and reading books,
and reading books, and
reading books, and going,
I wish I could be
more like that or I
wish I could be more like that.
You just got to get up
and start being that.
And that's the next step.
That's what I feel is the
next step in consciousness.
And that's the difference
between really that
and spirituality
because spirituality
is a lifestyle choice.
Consciousness is when
you start being it.
And that's the
difference because you
can have a lifestyle choice
but still not be conscious
and still not being it.
You can be doing it
but still in your mind
and still not fully being it.
And there is a big difference.
And so this is really
about being who you really
are, being who you really are,
standing up and saying, I'm OK.
Actually, I'm OK.
And that's very hard nowadays.
We're all finding
it's very hard to do.
>> LILOU: Last time I remember
we spoke of something like
being a shaman or living
a shamanic way of life.
Is that what you recommend?
>> REBEKAH: Living
shamanically is taking personal
responsibility for the choices
that you've made in your life
for where you are now because
you can't dwell in the back,
in the past.
The past is gone.
You have to-- in the back,
in the back end of the life,
the past life.
You have to go from
where you are now
and where you want to forward.
And the big problem
is that we're
living a lot in
regret in the past,
or we don't like the choices
that we've made in the past.
We bring that into
the present, and then
that automatically is
creating our future.
So what we need to
be doing is saying,
OK, well, it's the end of 2013.
I accept everything
that's gone, and I
take personal responsibility for
all the choices that I've made,
especially as an adult.
These people come
into our lives.
We choose people in our lives to
give us the lessons that we're
needing to have to learn
or to shift something.
So it's really about honoring,
and honoring ourselves
for making those choices for
whatever reasons they were for,
and saying, OK, now
2014 is coming up.
What do I want to create?
What do I want to
create differently?
What have I learned
from those mistakes?
And what do I want to
create differently?
So rather than me seeing it from
a negative perspective-- oh, I
shouldn't have done that, or
I shouldn't have done this--
you say, OK, well that happened.
What have I learned from it?
What are the mistakes?
And how am I going
to do it differently?
How is this going to empower
me rather than dis-empower me?
And this is the difference
between living shamanically
and living in this
environment at the moment.
In this environment
in the moment,
we're in victim mentality.
Oh, this happened to me.
It was this person's fault, this
government, and this, and this,
and this.
It's everybody
else, but not them.
When we live shamanically,
we stop the blame game
immediately.
We stop the victim mentality.
And we say, OK, well, I
had choices that I've made.
But now, I take
personal responsibility.
And now, I'm in control of
where my future's going.
And so you take
that autonomy back.
You take that control back--
that personal control,
that personal autonomy.
And that's very empowering.
And that's when you stop
worrying about what's going on
out there and you
start coming inside.
And that's why things like
meditation or exercise
when you get into
the zone are really
good moments when you can
release all that negative stuff
in the head and
really get into what's
going on deep within you.
And deep within us is the
truth, the real truth.
And the real truth is that
we're beautiful loving
beings of light,
and love-- we are.
Human beings are amazing.
They're so beautiful, and
kind, and caring, and loving,
and they have empathy.
And the ones that
don't are the ones
that don't feel it within them.
And so they're creating
an externalized process
of their pain.
But once you've healed
anyone-- and Buddha
has a very good
story about that.
When a mass murderer
who was killing
loads of people
around the villages--
no one could stop him.
And he came across Buddha.
And immediately
by seeing Buddha,
he was very conscious
and very-- he
was totally conscious and
at peace, and awakened.
It calmed him down immediately,
brought him back to his senses.
And he became a great
saint, this mass murderer.
And actually, Buddha
says, that some
of the major mass murderers are
actually the greatest saints,
they just have to switch their
negative perspective around.
Because if you've got the
opportunity to murder someone,
then you've got the capacity to
love someone at the same level.
It's just two sides of the coin.
And we just demonize
all the darkness.
But actually, you
have to embrace it
all because within that
nugget of that mass murderer
is an amazing seed of love.
To have that passion to kill
has that passion to love.
And that is what
isn't being nurtured--
this passion to love.
And unfortunately with
the media as well,
they like to demonize
and create fear.
And so we don't see all
the amazing people that
are reforming, and changing, and
showing those seeds of love--
and all the normal
people out there,
they're all loving each other.
I mean, I have a great
faith for humanity.
I have great faith that
we're going to turn it around
because we are amazing beings
and we are an amazing species.
>> LILOU: What do we do with
that shadow when it starts
popping up?
That shadow inside us or we
have it right in front of us--
and it can be scary.
>> REBEKAH: It can be really
scary, it can be really scary.
It's about working with it.
If you deny your
shadow self, it will
come up and kick
you in the bottom.
It just will because it'll
come out ninja style-y.
Because it has to come out.
It has to have expression.
Because we are both-- we are
living in a duality reality.
And the duality reality is
the positive and negative,
the black and the
white, the peace
and the war, the
love and the hate.
We can't live on this
planet without duality.
So we have the
shadow side and then
light side of our personalities.
And when we can
recognize the shadow side
and take responsibility
for the shadow side,
and start becoming aware of
it, and acknowledging it,
then we are in a position to
make more conscious choices.
And that's what
consciousness is.
It's being aware that we can
make more conscious choices.
So when we have a
situation in front of us,
we can choose to work
with the shadow side
or we can choose to work
with the side of love,
and forgiveness, and compassion.
But you have to reach a
point where you actually
know what your shadow
side is in order
to choose not to use that side.
And that's that
journey of discovery
that I was talking about.
And there's loads
of people out there.
It's an amazing pantheon of
amazing books, and teachers,
and people who have walked
this path, who are still
walking this path
who showing the way.
But again, you've got
your own unique shadow.
No one has had a
shadow side like yours
and no one has a light side.
Every human is unique with
their own unique shadow side
and light side.
And it's up to the
individual to find
those skills, and those
talents, and those gifts--
alongside the shadow
side, as well-- in order
to know how they want
to be in the world.
And that's the greatness
about this planet
is that we're all
uniquely different,
and yet we're all
collectively interconnected.
This game is the most amazing,
unbelievable game ever.
And to be a part of it
is an amazing blessing
and it's a magical blessing.
This time now on the
planet is-- we can really
go into the fear now--
the fear, and the terror,
and the anxiety,
and the stress--
or we can choose to go into
the bliss, and the love,
and the forgiveness, and the
compassion, and the harmony.
And this is a choice that
we're all going to take.
And the more of us
that are conscious
will choose to take the
more enjoyable path.
And those that aren't
conscious that are still
connected in with the three
dimensional system of belief
of greed, and money, and
status, and all of that
that isn't necessarily
serving who they really are,
then they're going to start
seeing a big struggle.
Because that's what's happening
on the planet-- there's
a big shift going on now--
and because it's needed too
because we really are
reaching a point where we're
going to have to change
something otherwise
we're not leaving the planet
for future generations.
And that's really the
most important thing here.
>> LILOU: I know your
dad, Lawrence Bloom,
is very much into the
sustainability yeah?
You kind of took on that
journey once you came back too.
I mean, you really
want to bring this
into the big businesses, or
the corporation, or hospitality
industry since that's
where you really
had your shocking
moment, right, in Peru?
>> REBEKAH: Yeah, it's
difficult to know.
The future is
unwritten, so I have
no idea what's
going to happen next
whether it's big businesses
that need to change
or whether-- see everyone
is looking for it,
whether you're in
big businesses,
whether you're a teacher
that's massively stressed out
and wants to teach, but isn't
able to be who they really
are in the teaching profession.
Everyone who is feeling
stressed and depressed,
it doesn't matter
what they're doing,
that that's what
they're feeling.
And since I came
back from the Amazon,
I've almost given
up my ego knowing
of what's going to happen next.
And I've really
surrendered to wherever
I'm meant to be, I will
to do thy will, almost.
So wherever I'm meant to be,
whatever I'm meant to be doing,
that's where I end up.
Because I tell you, when I
came back from the Amazon,
I never expected to go
into the corporate world--
not in my wildest dreams,
not in my craziest dreams.
Because while I
was in the Amazon,
I saw myself as a
healer, and a shaman,
and having my healing clinic,
and doing all shamanic stuff.
And shamanism was getting
quite popular at the time.
And so when I came back and just
got this really strong message
during meditation that that
wasn't where I was meant to be.
>> LILOU: What, where
did that come from?
>> REBEKAH: Yeah,
I was like, well,
what do you want me to do then?
So at that moment, I had
to kind of relinquish.
OK, well, this wonderful
dream of me being a shaman
and floating around having my
healing clinics-- that ego,
that ego desire--
>> LILOU: Floating around.
>> REBEKAH: Yeah, gliding around
like looking after my minions,
you know?
So that's probably why I
didn't end up doing it.
And so I talked to the
universe, OK, well,
if I'm not meant
to be doing that,
where am I meant to be going?
And I was running,
doing a lot of running,
and swimming-- loads of
running and swimming.
And I was living in
Germany at the time
up in the mountains
just outside Wiesbaden.
And slowly the message came
through in the meditations,
in the running meditations,
when I was in the zone.
My mind had blocked out.
And suddenly I could hear
the voice from within.
And it said, you have
to do a an MS Master's
degree in development
with a basis in economics,
like development
economics, because you
need to be able to
speak the language.
And you need to know
what's really going on
on the planet from an
academic point of view
in order to be able to have that
understanding on all levels.
And I was like, really?
No, I want to be
a lovely shaman.
I don't want to be
going back to uni.
But I said, OK, well, if I'm
meant to be going there--
and I'm sure you've seen this.
If you're meant to do something,
if you're in alignment,
it's like everything just
opens up effortlessly.
And within three months, I was
sitting that degree course.
It was amazing-- how
everything happened,
all the doors opened,
everything opened,
and there I was
doing the degree.
And then during my research for
my dissertation this company--
>> LILOU: What was your
dissertation about?
>> REBEKAH: Community based
tourism as a way of alleviating
poverty in rural communities.
So coming from my
Machu Picchu background
from living in Machu Picchu
and seeing how community based
tourism is some way of
empowering local communities
to get them out of poverty.
But I didn't use Machu
Picchu as my research.
I used Namibia in Africa,
in southern Africa,
because they have a
background of community
based tourism projects.
And they have various different
ones that you can look at.
So I went off to Namibia,
and I did my research there.
But what I found, and this is
quite an interesting conclusion
from the dissertation, was that
there was four different ways
of doing community
based tourisms.
And the only one
that really worked
was if there was
someone in charge that
understood Westerners'
needs and could control
and knew what needed
to be done next,
and was overseeing everything.
And I really saw that strong
leadership in any movement
is really, really important
because that leadership,
that leader-- and it's
not a leader of power.
It's a guidance.
It's like a spiritual
guidance system.
And it's interesting
because in Judaism,
that's what a Rabbi used to be.
It used to be a spiritual
guide, never used
to control the community.
Because people didn't
have the courage
to make these decisions, and
if you've got a collective,
and everyone's got loads
of different ideas,
it's very difficult to
get clear decision making.
And if you have one person
that everyone trusts,
everyone loves,
everyone respects,
and he's like the wisdom keeper.
And he makes the decision.
And so that was the most smooth
flowing of all the community
tourism projects that I visited.
And that was very
interesting for me
because I did realize that if
you want to start something
then that has to have
some type of leadership.
And I think a lot of
movements have fizzled out
because they haven't
had the leadership.
They haven't had the person
who is holding the vision
and guiding the ship.
You always have to have
a captain on every ship.
No ship is rudderless.
You have the whole team
that works the ship,
but it's the captain
that's guiding it.
And every movement
is like a ship.
And if you don't have
a captain in place,
or a good captain in place, or
one that's holding the vision,
then you don't know
which wind to take.
And there's so many winds to
take to get to a destination.
So that was quite an important--
>> LILOU: But at the
same time in society,
that's a big issue because
the leaders kind of, again,
think they're gods.
And the ego kicks
in, and there's
self importance, and all that.
So how do you not
fall back in that trap
again and recreate,
more or less,
what's been already done here?
You know what I mean?
The whole leadership
that-- this world
needs a new kind of leadership.
>> REBEKAH: Exactly.
That's the key.
But it's a leadership coming
from a different value
system, a different
belief system.
Leadership in itself
isn't wrong, isn't bad.
But the leadership
that's coming is
coming from a value
system and a belief
system that isn't
serving everybody.
It's serving themselves
and their shareholders.
It's the new
leadership that needs
to come in that's very much
about serving the community,
serving humanity,
serving mother earth.
And once you have someone in
place who is holding that--
>> LILOU: Selfless service.
>> REBEKAH: Selfless
service, selfless service--
and you are starting to see that
coming through more and more.
And what I'm finding
is that anyone
who has that kind of
ego leadership trying
to do something spiritual it
flops straight away or very
soon afterwards because
it doesn't fit in
with the universal
consciousness.
So you can't say
one thing and then
do something totally
different without there
being some massive implication.
See, I believe, my
feeling is that there's
a lot of business people
out there, a lot of leaders
out there that actually think
they're doing the right thing.
They actually think that
They actually believe that
what they're doing is right.
And so the implications
aren't so great.
But if you're doing it, and
you know it's not right,
and you know there's
something not right with it,
and you know you're
doing something wrong--
that's when the implications
are much greater.
But if you're doing it
with complete conviction
that what you're
doing is right, you
become a very dangerous
leader because you
don't see the overall picture.
And that's what I think
a lot of our leaders
are actually almost believing
themselves, what they're saying
and what they're doing,
without actually--
it's almost like they're
in that kind of denial.
And it's an interesting game
that's being played out.
But what's needed
is more leaders
to come up with this different
philosophy and different belief
system.
>> LILOU: If there is five big
values that those companies,
or those leaders, or those
politicians, or the teachers,
or the future gurus, or
authors, or interviewers,
or whatever it is-- what
is at the core, really?
What is the values that
are needed right now
or that could guide us?
>> REBEKAH: There's only one.
And that is love and
respect Mother Earth
and all living
things and humanity.
If you love and respect all
living things and Mother Earth,
if you're coming from that
place of real love and respect,
you're not going
to harm anything.
If that's at the front of your
belief system, then actually
all your actions are
connected in with that.
So you're just going
to do everything that's
going to support life on
earth and future generations.
And for me that's shamanism.
That's why I don't
call it spirituality
because spirituality has caught
itself up in a load of dogma.
Religion has caught itself
up in a load of dogma.
The problem with dogma is that
there's no room for fluidity.
And when you live
shamanically-- if that's
your basic core belief
system is to love and respect
Mother Earth and
all living things
and humanity as
a race of beings,
and we're all in
this together-- then
the way you live on the planet
is in accordance with that,
then you can't do any harm.
Because your intention is
always for the highest good.
>> LILOU: Gaiam.
>> REBEKAH: Yeah, Gaiam.
Exactly, exactly-- Gaiam.
And that's what we really
need to get to is that Gaiam.
We are part of her.
And this system can go
on for a bit longer.
Certainly in my lifetime
it's going to be ended.
I'm sure of it.
But what are we doing
for future generations?
This is the biggest implication.
There's loads of babies
being born at the moment.
It seems to be a big baby boom.
But actually, what state
are we leaving this planet
in for future generations?
And the Hopi-- every
decision the Hopi
make, it affected
seven generations down.
And we're making
decisions right now
like fracking that-- God knows
where that's going to go--
or GM foods.
We just don't know where all
these things are going to go.
And really fracking,
we've hit the bottom.
We've really hit
the very bottom.
If we're fracking, we've
hit rock bottom basically
with the fracking.
And that is very powerful.
We have to hit rock bottom
in order to come back up.
So, yeah, I really
see fracking as
that we've hit rock bottom now.
And there's only one
way, and that is up,
that is a shift and a change.
>> LILOU: Could we finish
this interview with a poem.
>> REBEKAH: Yes, of course.
Which one?
>> LILOU: The one that comes
to your mind right now that you
feel is--
>> REBEKAH: OK, great.
Yeah, no problem.
So I think I'm going to share
my evolutionary pathways
poem because this is a poem
that I channeled in 2003.
So I wrote my book, The
Shaman's Last Apprentice.
I'm going to do a little
plug because I actually
self-published it.
And it's available
on my website.
And it's my experiences
in the Amazon
about Amazonian Shamanism,
and how I lived in the Amazon,
and also a lot of the
teachings of Don Juanito
that he asked me to be
bring back to the West.
And after I wrote the book--
it was all quite cosmic
how the book got written--
but this poetry came through.
And this one is called
Evolutionary Pathways.
And I wrote it in
2003, and it never
really made that much sense.
So I didn't really
say it very much
because it was a bit out
there, a bit woo-woo.
And just in the last few
weeks even, it suddenly
seems to make a lot of
sense and really makes sense
with where we're
going on the planet
and what we're
doing on the planet.
And so I'd really
like to share this
with you because in 2014 we're
about to have a huge shift,
a consciousness shift.
It had to come.
On December the 21st
2012, the planet
aligned with the
galactic center,
which is where the force
of our energy is coming.
And so it aligned.
So it wasn't the
end of the world.
That was all a kind of a hype.
But something did
happen, and that
was this alignment with
the galactic center.
Now, it takes a while
because this universe
is so huge, it's so
humongous, that we're not
going to feel the effects
on the day itself.
It takes time to
start feeling them.
And so this year has been
a year of really big change
but very subtle big change.
Like things have--
relationships have
broken up or come together.
Anything that isn't really
serving us has had to leave us.
We've had to face some of
our really dark demons.
It has been quite
a tumultuous time,
especially since the September.
So this is in preparation
for us in 2014.
And the more preparation
we've done this year,
the easier it will be to serve
this energetic wave that's
coming towards us in 2014.
And I know you've heard a bit
about that on your journeys,
too, haven't you?
>> LILOU: Yeah, and this video
will air on Gaiam in 2014.
So people-- we're already
in 2014 right now.
>> REBEKAH: Oh, perfect.
So it's perfect timing.
So I always suggest that
people sit back, and just
close their eyes, and let
the words wash over you
because they have an
energetic vibration as well
is it being a poem.
And when we allow the
words to wash over us,
it can have a deeper impact
on our inner consciousness
and can open up things
within us that can really
help us to understand maybe
things that we haven't really
understood before.
So if there's been any
challenges or things
that you haven't
really understand,
sometimes it can
happen in a poem
that it just opens
up the consciousness
and gives you that answer
that you've been waiting for.
So I suggest you just sit
back and take a deep breath.
And just let out all the
energy, and stress, and anxiety
that you may have been feeling.
Just slowly relax,
close your eyes,
and it's called
Evolutionary Pathways.
We think we're the
victims, but we just
don't see we are
whoever we choose to be.
For every decision we
make in the present,
the seed of the
future is inherent.
Our parents have taught us
another idea passed down
through generations
but based on fear.
And now we've forgotten
why we are here.
We cling to the past,
worry what's coming next.
Seem to live our lives
in constant regrets.
But we're beginning
to awake and starting
to remember as the creator
stokes the evolutionary embers.
And every member
of the human race
will soon have to
find their place
on the evolutionary scale.
But wherever you
are, you cannot fail.
It's just Mother Earth is
shifting in opposite directions
based on our
subconscious reflections.
So if you choose
to fear and hate,
that is what will be your fate.
Your state of mind will
draw to you fear and hate
in all you say and do.
But if instead you choose
love and tranquility,
you will start to live in
your true divinity as the gods
and goddesses that we
really are illuminating
the light from our bright star.
For the physical body
is not really here.
It's just a hologram of light
that was originally clear.
But over time, it's been
tainted by fear and greed.
That was not part of the DNA
program of our original seed.
And if you heed what
I'm saying, it's
because we can no longer hide.
It's time to let go,
and stop the fight,
and accept that we are being
lead by following our hearts
and not our heads.
For we have already
made the decision.
And only in the stillness
can we listen in order
to envision what we
want to manifest.
We no longer need
to guess or walk
through life with closed eyes.
It's time to open them,
spread wings, and fly
to the next dimension
that is ready and waiting.
Pure and untouched with
love that's vibrating,
pulsating joy for us to start
again as true light beings
in this new game for whatever
we do now, we cannot stop.
Mother Earth's need
to purge the rot,
so stop falling victim
to this 3D reality
that has kept us locked
in karmic causality.
Just radiate love and
joy from your inner soul,
and it will be returned
to you a thousand
fold throughout aspects of
the creator that is the all.
And in the silence
we can hear the call
of the great goddess who
has come to help us out.
All we need to do is trust
without doubt and start living
life as a wondrous
and magical gift.
Now, remember to smile
as the earth shifts.
>> LILOU: Hmm, magnifique.
So beautiful-- heart opening.
Thank you Rebekah.
>> REBEKAH: Thank
you so much Lilou.
Thank you for inviting
me onto Gaiam.
>> LILOU: My pleasure.
My delicious pleasure.
Thank you.
Hope you have enjoyed this
my delicious co-creators.
Big, big kisses from
beautiful London.
>> REBEKAH: Bye, lots of love.
>> LILOU: Lots of love from
this beautiful city-- bye.